Woke up back in this lesson we're going to be looking at the switch statement.
So previously we saw that the if statement allowed us to apply multiple conditions and continue to check
and also have a default that if none of those conditions were true.
So this is the same type of idea for the switch statement but it actually allows you to write it out
quite a bit neater.
So the switch statement is going to take one expression and I get to use my time that we're entering
in and so my time.
And then what it uses is the curly brackets and it uses the key word case.
So basically this case is what evaluates the expression.
So over here we've got a value here.
And now let's check case.
So our first case checked to see if the value is 8.
And if this is true then we're going to execute some code here.
So let's
create a folder for.
So I'm going to create h t m l i create a variable called H him.
And now I can put each t about an equal that to good more or we'll just keep it the same as what we
did before.
Well do we wake up time and we get as many things to happen here as needed.
And if we want to have another case so do Case 12 and this time the age to now will be lunch and that
should be an equal sign.
And next let's do case and this time was 2 4 p.m. so that should be sixteen hundred hours and also H.T.
amount to be dinner Snel Let's go down to the bottom and I can assure you that.
So the way that we set it up it's actually going to work the first time we run through and then I'll
show you why afterwards.
So let's update that with the HMO.
So let's refresh and it's going to ask us what our IT IS.
So let's say our 8 and we see that it returns back on defined.
And what's happening here is that first of all the my time is not a number.
So we need to update that to be a number so irritated.
How does a number go back refreshed and all we get is
we're missing one print this either.
So let's refresh that it now let's try eight and we see that we get dinner in returned.
So the problem here is that what's happening.
Actually evaluating it as true over here and it's continuing through all of these cases.
So if for example I do something that isn't true so if I do 5 We're going to just get undefine because
we don't have a value being set for aged him up.
So basically if one of these expressions one of these values is true to the expression that we've got
in here then it runs through and it runs the code within the case.
And this is where break is really important because break allows us to stop executing this particular
this particular set of code.
And this is where we are in break.
So we need to add in a break for every single line here for every single case.
Otherwise if we pick it it's just going to follow through on to the other cases.
So once one of these cases is true unless you add in break then it will continue to run through the
code.
So let's try it again now and this time.
Let's try and wake up time refreshed again this time.
Let's try 12 and we see lunch.
And this time let's try 16 and we see dinner.
And now lastly let's put something in there that doesn't exist and we see we get 77.
So this isn't an accurate time.
We need to have a default something that says that there's nothing to do for that time.
And this is where we can use case watch we have to use case we can do default.
And basically what the default will do is this rule that HMO if none of these are true.
So nothing to do and closed off.
So refresh.
And now let's do a time that we don't have anything existing.
So we turned back nothing to
the one thing that I do want to note that we saw that we had to switch this to a number because when
we use prompt we're getting a string value.
And that way we need to have them notching types so we can also see that by default.
So this one is my type in the cases we can use strings as well.
So we don't necessarily need to have numeric values.
We can have cases as strings.
So let me show you now that if I enter in 8 then it's still going to work because now we've switched
it out and we're using the string now use.
So let's make an update to this.
So instead of returning back what we need to do let's say we enter in what action what are you doing.
And instead of telling us it's time to wake up depending on the time we're going to say what we're doing
so for eating lunch that it should return dot dot.
It's 12 12 o'clock if we're eating dinner it should return like that it's 6:00 p.m. if we're waking
up then it should turn return back not it's 8:00 a.m..
So what I want you to do now is to open up your editor make those updates to the switch statement and
try it out and get that output coming into that elements on your web page and show you the solution.
Coming up so good an opportunity to try it out and we saw that we can really easily switch and have
multiple different types of cases here within the switch statement and we can also use strings or we
can also use numbers and if we use numbers of course if the case is a number then we have to also have
the switch condition also to be a number as well.
So the expression has to match with what the case the expression output evaluation has to notch to be
whatever the case is.
So now let's make that update.
So is it that we get up so we know that the time that we get up is going to be 8 a.m.
and this one is lunch.
So we know that we're eating lunch at 12:00 and that's 12:00 p.m. and then dinner and we're eating dinner
at
6pm.
And lastly let's do something where I'm not found or something like that so we get some type of message
coming back to the user.
So let's try this out.
So let's see.
What are you doing.
Lunch.
We see that the time is 12:00 p.m. We're going to see dinner time is 6 p.m..
Refresh it and get up and make sure that that case matches.
And there we go.
So we've got we've got it working.
And this is how you could use the switch statement.
So remember that to include the breaks within the switch statement.
Also remember to make sure that the case matches whatever is here with your evaluated expression and
make sure that everything is matching up and the next lesson I'm going to show you even more that we
can do with the conditional statements that if statements and switch statements.
That's coming up.